Now that we know what models are,
we can discuss how we might use
them in reinforcement learning.
That is, how one can
leverage a model to better
inform decision-making
without having
to interact with the world,
we call this process planning
with model experience.
In this video, we will talk
about one particular
view of planning.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to explain how
planning is used to improve
policies and describe
one step tabular queue Planning.
Planning is a process
which takes a model as
input and produces
unimproved policy.
One possible approach to planning
is to first sample
experience from the model.
This is like imagining
possible scenarios in
the world based on
your understanding of
how the world works.
This generated experience
can then be use
to perform updates to
the value function as if
these interactions actually
occurred in the world.
Behaving greedily with respect to
these improved values results
in improved policy.
Recall that Q-learning uses
experienced from the environment,
they performs an update
to improve a policy.
In Q-planning, we use
experience from the model
and perform a similar update
to improve a policy.
Random-sample one-step
tabular Q-planning
illustrates this idea.
This approach assumes we have
a sample model of
the transition dynamics.
It also assumes that
we have a strategy
for sampling relevant
state action pairs.
One possible option is to
sample states and
actions uniformly.
This algorithm first
chooses a state action pair
at random from the set of
all states and actions.
It then queries
the sample model with
this state action pair to produce
a sample of the next
state and reward.
It then performs
a Q-Learning Update
on this model transition.
Finally, it improves
the policy by
beautifying with respect to
the updated action values.
A key point is that
this planning method
only uses imagined or
simulated experience.
All of these updates can be
done without behaving in
the world or in parallel
with the interaction loop.
Imagine that actions can only be
taken as specific time points,
but Learning updates can be
executed relatively fast.
This results in
some waiting time from after
the Learning Update and when
the next action is taken.
We can fill in this waiting time
with Planning Updates.
Imagine we have a robot that
is standing near a cliff.
Let's say it's model knows about
the outcome of stepping
off of the cliff,
but it is not
accurately represented
in its value function or policy.
It can generate simulated
experience of stepping off of
the cliff and perform
many planning steps
on these transitions.
It's value functional now better
reflect that stepping
off of the cliff is bad,
and it's policy will have
its step away from the cliff.
To summarize, we discussed
how planning methods
use simulated experience
to improve policies,
how random sample once
I've tabular Q-planning
uses a sample model to
randomly generate experience,
and how the value
function is then
improved using
a Q-Learning update.